In this video, we're going to start to implement password hashing during the signup process.
Now, there are many different ways of implementing this.
And if you take a look online at some different tutorials on how to implement password hashing while
using MongoDB and Mongoose, you're going to see that a lot of them recommend that you place all this
password hashing logic directly into your user model file.
So in other words, inside of our models user points, we would write out a lot of code to hash the
password and then store it along with the user.
Now we are going to do something similar to that, but we're going to break our logic up here into two
separate files.
We're going to make a separate file or more specifically, a separate class that is just responsible
for taking a string and hashing it.
We're also going to have inside that class a function that's going to compare to different hash strings
as well.
So the majority of the actual hashing logic that actual implementation is going to be in this separate
file, in this separate class, and then we're going to use that inside of our user model file.
The reason we're doing this is to just keep our user model file a little bit cleaner, because right
now there's a lot of stuff already inside of here and a lot of the stuff is pretty confusing.
So I want to limit the complexity of this file as much as possible.
That's why we are going to place a lot of this hashing stuff in another location.
So let's get to it.
Let me show you how we're going to build out this password hashing stuff in a separate location.
And by CRC directory, I'm going to make a new folder called Services.
There's probably a better name for this folder.
I like to create a services directory for just a lot of kind of general purpose things that are floating
around.
My application again, probably could think of a better name, but this will work for right now.
Inside there, I'm going to make a new file called Password.
It's.
And then inside of that, I'll export a new class called Password.
And I'm going to give this last password to different static methods.
So I'm going to say static.
To hash.
We're going to receive a password as a string and I'll make a separate method that's also static called
compare.
This is going to take a stored password.
That is a string and a supplied password.
That is a string.
Quick reminder on what a static method is.
Static methods are methods that we can access without creating an instance of the class.
So for example, we can call both these methods right here by simply calling passwords to hash or password.
Compare.
This is opposed to what normal methods or instance methods such as if we had a method on here like print
to access print, we would have to first make a new instance of password.
And then on there we could access rent.
Okay.
So we're going to implement our hashing logic here and then some logic right here to actually compare
a stored password and a supplied one.
So for handling the two hash parts, this is where we want to take in a plaintext password and somehow
hash it.
Now, the logic that we're going to write out inside of here is going to be a little bit specialized.
Again, I'm going to kind of assume that you have seen password hashing at least once in the past.
And if you haven't, again, I recommend doing a little quick blog search online, look at a tutorial
or two.
There's a ton of resources out there.
So for the most part, we're just going to throw in a bunch of code rather quickly.
At the very top, I'm going to import script and random bytes from the built in node library of crypto.
I'm also going to get the promise of FY function from you till.
Script is the hashing function that we're going to use as script is fantastic.
The downside to it is that is callback based.
We want to eventually use async, await for doing a lot of logic inside of here.
So I got promise ify so we can take this callback based function and turn it into a promise based implementation
which is compatible with using async await.
So I'm going to say const script async.
Is promise ify is script like so.
So again, just going from the callback implementation to a promise based implementation.
So then inside of here, we're going to generate a salt, which is a part of the hashing process.
So I'll say salt is random bytes.
Eight to string.
X.
So that's going to generate a random string for us.
And then going to do the actual password hashing process.
When we use script async or really script in general, we get back what is called a buffer, which is
kind of like an array with raw data inside of it.
So we are going to create a variable right here called Buff Short for Buffer.
I'm going to do an O8 script async.
I'm going to pass it in the password and the salt and a number of 64 right here.
We immediately get an error because we're using O8.
So if you want to use the syntax, we need to mark the enclosing function as async as usual.
So I'll do so right away.
Now, if we mouse over buffer right here, you'll notice that unfortunately TypeScript is getting a
little bit confused because it doesn't really know what happened during this promise of PHI process.
So when we mouse over buffer it's type is annotated as unknown typescript.
TypeScript is saying I have no idea what is going on here.
So we're going to fix this up by just telling TypeScript exactly what Buffer is.
I'm going to wrap this entire await statement with the set of parentheses, and then at the very end,
I'll put on as buffer.
That's telling TypeScript.
Look, we know what's going on here.
This is a buffer.
Just treat it as such.
If I now mouse over buff.
Now this thing is recognized as being a buffer.
Now finally, we're going to return the hashed result along with the assault.
So I'm going to return a template string.
So note the back ticks here, not single quotes.
I'm going to put in here buff to string x because remember we are working with the buffer which is not
the same as a string.
So we have to turn it into a string.
Then at the very end, I'm going to put a dot.
And then put on the rest, which is our salt.
Okay.
So that is our two hash function.
It's going to take in some password or essentially any arbitrary string, generate a salt.
It's going to hash the password along with the salt, and then we're going to return both the hash password
and the salt concatenated together and joined by a little dot.
Yes.
That's pretty good.
Well, let's take a quick pause right here, and then we're going to implement the computer function
in the next video as well.